---
layout: post
title: "flatMap(Oslo) 2017"
categories: experience
tags: [experience]
preface: "My experience of visiting flatMap(Oslo)."
---

## Prehistory

My experience of visiting conferences is pretty limited. I attended at several conferences about web development and security before, but mostly free ones. Probably, it defines quality and community there.

I discovered flatMap(Oslo) conference 4 years ago when I started working with Scala and functional programming. Since that moment I watched almost all videos taken on the event. I was surprised by quality and depth of speeches. Finally, this year I managed to do all preparations and buy tickets to the flatMap(Oslo) 2017.

## Adventures

May the 1st, early morning, I'm waiting for boarding a plane to Moscow where I have connection to the flight to Oslo. It takes 6 hours to get to Norway, it was the easiest way to get to the place of conference a day before it. As usual, I tried to work in the airports where wifi is available and sleep while flying. Then it was landing at Gardermoen airport, customs checks, very fast and comfortable train to Oslo. Finally I'm, feeling excited and tired, in the city of the event (with closed stores, 1st of May is a holiday for Norway, but it's not a problem).

Next day, early morning for me, I'm walking to the House of Communities where the conference is. It takes several minutes to register, the organizers don't have ability to read QR-code from the ticket from phone screen, fortunately I have a printed copy and don't need to dictate my name in letters. I'm writing my name on the badge and that's it, I'm there.

I spend some time drinking coffee in the corner. I'm still not comfortable with approaching strangers, even at conferences, I need some time to get to the environment. Fortunately, I don't really need to do so myself. One of speakers approached me and we spent some time chatting about the event and our way to Oslo. Another cup os coffee and new person is chatting with me, the nice woman from London standing nearby and drinking coffee too, it was much more technical things. It's pretty interesting, speakers try to talk about everything except tech and other participants talk about Scala, functional programming, industry, their jobs. This 2 conversations help me to get used to environment, it was really easier to chat with other people after.

## Impression

I really loved how event is organized. 40 minutes for presentations and questions and 20 minute-long breaks between them give enough time to show something for the participants and discuss it after in smaller groups, or ask questions. The second day was a bit less smooth, but it was not less interesting or worse.

The diversity of topics is impressive. It was interesting to see some lambda calculus and concatenative programming. Presentation of Eta was pretty promising given that the project is very young. Even business side of development with scala was presented.

I want to separately note the presentation of Elm and give thanks to the speakers who spent an hour answering my questions after the presentation. I wish the workshop on Elm that I missed was after the presentation, I'd definitely visit it.

It worth mentioning that organizers and speakers found very good balance between serious technical presentations and ones for entertaining.

And a note about secondary things.

T-shirts, coffee cups, souvenirs are awesome. I love souvenirs from events. This items are part of my memories, material part of the experience. And that things are of really good quality.

Coffee and food at the event was really good. I was surprised to see vegeterian, lactose free, gluten free items in the buffet. It describes attitude of organizers towards participants. I was impressed by selection of locally brewed beer for the dinner too. Desire to share local culture with participants is very appealing.

In general, I'm glad that I visited flatMap(Oslo) this year. It's expensive but it was worth every nickel.

## Links

[flatMap(Oslo)](http://2017.flatmap.no/)
[Videos from the conference](https://vimeo.com/channels/flatmap2017)
